docs/source/package_reference/logging_methods.mdx, before:

# Logging methods

🤗 Datasets strives to be transparent and explicit about how it works, but this can be quite verbose at times. We have included a series of logging methods which allow you to easily adjust the level of verbosity of the entire library. Currently the default verbosity of the library is set to `WARNING`.

To change the level of verbosity, use one of the direct setters. For instance, here is how to change the verbosity to the `INFO` level:

```py
import datasets
datasets.logging.set_verbosity_info()
```

You can also use the environment variable `DATASETS_VERBOSITY` to override the default verbosity, and set it to one of the following: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`:

```bash
DATASETS_VERBOSITY=error ./myprogram.py
```

All the methods of this logging module are documented below. The main ones are:

- [`datasets.logging.get_verbosity`] to get the current level of verbosity in the logger
- [`datasets.logging.set_verbosity`] to set the verbosity to the level of your choice

In order from the least to the most verbose (with their corresponding `int` values):

1. `datasets.logging.CRITICAL` or `datasets.logging.FATAL` (int value, 50): only report the most critical errors.
2. `datasets.logging.ERROR` (int value, 40): only report errors.
3. `datasets.logging.WARNING` or `datasets.logging.WARN` (int value, 30): only reports error and warnings. This the default level used by the library.
4. `datasets.logging.INFO` (int value, 20): reports error, warnings and basic information.
5. `datasets.logging.DEBUG` (int value, 10): report all information.


## Functions

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.get_verbosity

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_info

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_warning

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_debug

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_error

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.disable_propagation

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.enable_propagation

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.get_logger

## Levels

### datasets.logging.CRITICAL

datasets.logging.CRITICAL = 50

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.DEBUG

datasets.logging.DEBUG = 10

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.ERROR

datasets.logging.ERROR = 40

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.FATAL

datasets.logging.FATAL = 50

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.INFO

datasets.logging.INFO = 20

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.NOTSET

datasets.logging.NOTSET = 0

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.WARN

datasets.logging.WARN = 30

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.WARNING

datasets.logging.WARNING = 30

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

Commit message:

Align tqdm control/cache control with Transformers (#3897)
* Align tqdm with transformers

* Add tqdm utilites to docs

* Introduce enable_caching / disable_caching

* Fix test naming

* Update src/datasets/fingerprint.py

Co-authored-by: Quentin Lhoest <42851186+lhoestq@users.noreply.github.com>

* Style and rename _active to _tqdm_active

Co-authored-by: Quentin Lhoest <42851186+lhoestq@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/package_reference/logging_methods.mdx, after:

# Logging methods

🤗 Datasets strives to be transparent and explicit about how it works, but this can be quite verbose at times. We have included a series of logging methods which allow you to easily adjust the level of verbosity of the entire library. Currently the default verbosity of the library is set to `WARNING`.

To change the level of verbosity, use one of the direct setters. For instance, here is how to change the verbosity to the `INFO` level:

```py
import datasets
datasets.logging.set_verbosity_info()
```

You can also use the environment variable `DATASETS_VERBOSITY` to override the default verbosity, and set it to one of the following: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`:

```bash
DATASETS_VERBOSITY=error ./myprogram.py
```

All the methods of this logging module are documented below. The main ones are:

- [`datasets.logging.get_verbosity`] to get the current level of verbosity in the logger
- [`datasets.logging.set_verbosity`] to set the verbosity to the level of your choice

In order from the least to the most verbose (with their corresponding `int` values):

1. `datasets.logging.CRITICAL` or `datasets.logging.FATAL` (int value, 50): only report the most critical errors.
2. `datasets.logging.ERROR` (int value, 40): only report errors.
3. `datasets.logging.WARNING` or `datasets.logging.WARN` (int value, 30): only reports error and warnings. This the default level used by the library.
4. `datasets.logging.INFO` (int value, 20): reports error, warnings and basic information.
5. `datasets.logging.DEBUG` (int value, 10): report all information.

By default, `tqdm` progress bars will be displayed during dataset download and preprocessing. [`datasets.logging.disable_progress_bar`] and [`datasets.logging.enable_progress_bar`] can be used to suppress or unsuppress this behavior. 

## Functions

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.get_verbosity

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_info

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_warning

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_debug

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.set_verbosity_error

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.disable_propagation

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.enable_propagation

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.get_logger

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.enable_progress_bar

[[autodoc]] datasets.logging.disable_progress_bar

[[autodoc]] datasets.is_progress_bar_enabled

## Levels

### datasets.logging.CRITICAL

datasets.logging.CRITICAL = 50

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.DEBUG

datasets.logging.DEBUG = 10

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.ERROR

datasets.logging.ERROR = 40

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.FATAL

datasets.logging.FATAL = 50

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.INFO

datasets.logging.INFO = 20

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.NOTSET

datasets.logging.NOTSET = 0

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.WARN

datasets.logging.WARN = 30

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```

### datasets.logging.WARNING

datasets.logging.WARNING = 30

int([x]) -> integer

int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.

```py
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
```
